# Generative Adversarial Network for Handwritten Digit Generation using MNIST

This project implements a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) aimed at synthesizing realistic handwritten digits. 
By training on the MNIST dataset, this GAN learns to generate new images of digits that closely resemble the real handwritten digits in the dataset. 

# The project consists of two primary components:
- Generator: A deep neural network that creates synthetic images from random noise (latent vectors).
- Discriminator: A neural network that distinguishes between real and generated images, guiding the Generator to improve its output.

## Project Overview

The Generator network progressively learns to create more convincing images by receiving feedback from the Discriminator, which attempts to classify whether an image is real (from the MNIST dataset) or fake (generated by the Generator). This adversarial training process is fundamental to GANs, where the ultimate goal is for the Generator to produce images that are indistinguishable from real handwritten digits.

Over the course of 50 epochs, the model undergoes continuous refinement through the adversarial loss functions, leading to a powerful image generation capability. The results are visualized at each epoch to demonstrate the gradual improvement in image quality.

## Key Features:
- Utilizes PyTorch for model implementation, training, and evaluation.
- Implements adversarial training between the Generator and Discriminator.
- Generates synthetic handwritten digits that resemble the MNIST dataset.
- Visualizes model performance after each epoch to track improvement.


## Technologies Used:
- Python (with PyTorch and Matplotlib)
- Deep Learning (Neural Networks, GANs)
- MNIST Dataset for handwritten digit recognition
- Adversarial Networks (Generator and Discriminator)
- CUDA for GPU acceleration

## How to Run:

1. Clone this repository:
   
   `git clone https://github.com/your-username/gan-mnist.git`

2. Install dependencies: (Type in on _Command Prompt_)

   `pip install -r requirements.txt`

3. Run the training script:
   
   ### if you run in Vscode Terminal:
   `jupyter notebook GenerativeAdversarialNetworks_GANs.ipynb`

   ### if you run in Terminal without opening .ipynb file:
   
   `jupyter nbconvert --to notebook --execute GenerativeAdversarialNetworks_GANs.ipynb`



